>> Ifill: THE MAN CHARGED IN THE
BOSTON MARATHON BOMBINGS
APPEARED IN COURT FOR THE FIRST
TIME TODAY AND PLEADED NOT
GUILTY IN THE ATTACKS THAT
KILLED THREE IN APRIL.
GOOD EVENING, I'M GWEN IFILL.
>> Woodruff: AND I'M JUDY
WOODRUFF.
ON THE "NEWSHOUR" TONIGHT, WE
GET THE DETAILS OF TODAY'S
ARRAIGNMENTF DZ OHOKHAR
TSARNAEV, WHERE HE FACEVICTD IMS
AND SURVIVORS OF THE ATTACKS.
>> Ifill: THEN H
REPUBLICANS MEET BEHIND CLOSED
DOORS TO DISCUSS STRATEGY ON
IMMIGRATION REFORM, RAY SUAREZ
TALKS TO TWO CONGRESSMEN
SEARCHING FOR A BILL THAT CAN
PASS.
>> Woodruff: HARI SREENIVASAN
REPORTS ON THE DIRTY AND
DANGEROUS WORK DONE BY CHILDREN
ON THE FRONT LINES OF THE
AFRICAN NATION BURKINA FASO'S
GOLD RUSH.
E> THE JOBS DOWN IN THE PITS AR
TYPICALLY RESERVED FOR
TEENAGERS.
WITH ONLTREEY  LIMBS TO BRACE
THE MINE WALLS, THE RISK TO THEM
IS REAL.
>> Ifill: WE HAVE THE STORY OF
THE POLITICAL AND ETHICAL
DILEMMAS CONFRONTING THE
GOVERNOR OF VIRGINIA.
>> Woodruff: AND JEFFREY BROWN
PROFILES A CHINESE DISSIDT,EN
WHO USES POETRY TO REFLECT ON
LIFE UNDER A REPRESSIVE REGIME.
>> Ifill: THAT'S ALL AHEAD ON
TONIGHT'S "NEWSHOUR."
>> Ifill: THE PROCEEDING LASTED
JUST SEVEN MINUTES TODAY IN
BOSTON.
THAT WAS ALL THE TIME NEEDED FOR
A FEDERAL JUDGE TO RECEIVE A
SERIES OF "NOT GUILTY" PLEAS
FROM THE SURVIVING SUSPECT IN
THE BOSTON MARATHON BOMBINGS.
HEAVILY ARMED POLICE STOOD GUARD
OUTSIDE THE FEDERAL COURTHOUSE
IN BOSTON, WHERE DZOKHAR
TSARNAEV WAS ARRAIGNED-- HIS
FIRST TIME IN PUBLIC
SINCE BEING CAPTURED NEARLY
THREE MONTHS AGO.
THE 19-YEAR-OLD ARRIVED AT
MIDDAY IN A FOUR-VEHICLE CONVOY,
AS A HANDFUL OF SUPPORTERS
CHEERED.
HE PLEADED NOT GUILTY TO 30
COUNTS-- RANGING FROM CARJACKING
TO USE OF A WEAPON OF MASS
DESTRUCTION-- RESULTING IN THE
DEATHS OF THREE PEOPLE NEAR THE
BOSTON MARATHON'S FINISH LINE.
THE CHARGES ALSO INCLUDE THE
MURDER OF AN M.I.T. POLICE
OFFICERHREE T DAYS AFTER THE
BOMBING.
NO CAMERAS WERE ALLOWED IN THE
COURTROOM, BUT REPORTERS AND
RELATIVES OF THE VICTIMS LINED
UP EARLY TO GET A GLIMPSE OF THE
SUSPECT.
AFTERWARD, THE UNCLE OF TWO
BROTHERS BADLY-WOUNDED IN THE
ATTACK SPOKE TO REPORTERS:
>> THE ONLY OPINION I COULD HAVE
WHEN I FIRST SAW HIM WAS THAT
HE... IT APPEARED THAT I GAVE
WHAT I WOULD DESCRIBE AS A
SMIRK.
HE NEVER LOOKED AT US.
HE NEVER TURNED IN OUR
DIRECTION.
WE WERE SITTING DIRECTLY BEHIND
HIM.
WE REALLY DIDN'T HAVE A GOOD
VIEWOF  HIM, YOU KNOW,
FACIALWISE.
>> I THOUGHT MAYBE HE WOULD COME
IN WITH A DIFFERENT ATTITUDE OR
MAYBE LOOK A LITTLE DIFFERENT.
MAYBE LOOK LIKE HE CARED A
LITTLE BIT BUT HE DIDN'T SHOW ME
THAT.
>> Ifill: TSARNAEV AND HIS OLDER
BROTHER TAMERLAN CAME TO THE
UNITED STATES AS BOYS, FROM
RUSSIA.
THE FAMILY WAS ETHNIC CHECHEN,
AND MUSLIM, FROM THE CAUCASUS
REGION.
AN INDICTMENT RELEASED LAST
MONTH SAYS THE BROTHERS CAME
UNDER THE INFLUENCE OF ISLAMIC
EXTREMIST MATERIAL.
THEN, ON APRIL 15, THEY
ALLEGEDLY USED EXPLOSIVES PACKED
IN PRESSURE COOKERS TO CARRY OUT
THE BOMBINGS.
THREE DAYS LATER, TAMERLAN
TSARNAEV DIED DURING A LATE-
NIGHT GUN BATTLE WITH POLICE.
AUTHORITIES SAY DZOKHAR ESCAPED
IN A STOLEN S.U.V., RUNNING OVER
HIS BROTHER'S BODY.
THE NEXT EVENING, HE WAS FOUND
WOUNDED, HIDING IN A BOAT IN A
BACKYARD IN WATERTOWN,
MASSACHUSETTS JUST OUTSIDE
BOSTON.
THE INDICTMENT SAYS HE HAD
WRITTEN A MESSAGE INSIDE THE
BOAT, THAT READ:
NOW, DZOKHAR TSARNAEV FACES A
POSSIBLE DEATH SENTENCE ON 17 OF
NO TRIAL DATE HAS BEEN SET.
WE TURN NOW TO
DAVID ABEL OF THE "BOSTON
GLOBE," WHO HAS BEEN COVERING
THE BOMBINGS AND INVESTIGATION
FROM THE START.
ON APRIL 15th, HE WAS REPORTING
ON THE BOSTON MARATHON FROM THE
FINISH LINE AND WITNESSED THE
ATTACKS.
TODAY, HE WAS IN THE COURTROOM.
SEVEN MINUTES ALTOGETHER IN THAT
COURTROOM.
TELL US WHAT HAPPENED.
>> WELL, I JUST WANT TO START
OFF BY SAYING IT WAS AN
INCREDIBLY EMOTIONAL DAY FOR A
LOT OF PEOPLE.
A LOT OF US HAVE BEEN WAITING
FOR A LONG TIME TO SEE DZHOKHAR
TSARNAEV, AND WHEN WE SAW HIM
WALK IN THE ROOM, WE SAW HIM
SMIRK.
HE APPEARS TO BE HEALTHY ASIDE
FROM HAVING AN ARM IN A CAST.
AND A BIT SWELLING ON THE LEFT
SIDE OF HIS FACE.
>> Ifill: WHERE HAS HE BEEN HELD
SINCE THE BOMBINGS?
OBVIOUSLY HE WAS NO LONGER IN
THE HOSPITAL.
>> INITIALLY HE WAS TREATED AT A
HOSPITAL IN BOSTON AND THEN HE
WAS TRANSFERRED TO AISON, A
FEDERAL MEDICAL PRISON FACILITY
JUST WEST OF BOSTON CALLED FORT
DEVIN.
>> Ifill: YOU WERE INSIDE THE
COURTROOM.
AS YOU POINT OUT, A LOT OF
PEOPLE INSIDE THE COURTROOM HAD
ALSO BEEN AT THE BOSTON
MARATHON, AT THE FINISH LINE.
WHAT WAS THE REACTION?
WHO WERE THE PEOLE WPHO WERE IN
THE ROOM?
>> THERE WERE A RANGE OF PEOPLE
IN THE ROOM.
THERE WERE PEOPLE WHO HAD
SUFFERED SOME VERY SIGNIFICANT
INJURIES, WHETHER IT WAS MAJOR
BURNS, WHETHER IT WAS SERIOUS
WOUNDS TO THEIR LEGS.
THERE WERE POLICE OFFICERS
INCLUDING THE CHIEF OF THE
M.I.T. POLICE DEPARTMENT WHERE
SEAN COLLIER, A POLICE OFFICER
WAS ALLEGEDLY KILLED BY THE
TSARNAEV BROTHERS.
AND THERE WERE ALSO QUITE A
NUMBER OF SUPPORTERS OF DZHOKHAR
TSARNAEV, PEOPLE WHO BELIEVE
THAT HE WAS FRAMED OR THAT HE'S
INNOCENT.
>> Ifill: THESE SPOATERS, THEY
WERE INSIDE AND OUTSIDE I
GATHER.
WERE THEY FAMILY MEMBERS?
WERE THEY PEOPLE WHO HE KNEW?
WERE THEY CLASSMATES?
WHO WERE THE SUPPORTERS?
>> WELL, THERE WERE A NUMBER OF
PEOPLE.
THERE WERE PEOPLE WHO PERHAPS
JUST READ ABOUT HIM ON THE
INTERNET AND FOR SOME REASON SAW
ALL KINDS OF VIDEOS THAT HAVE
BEEN SUGGESTING FOR ONE REASON
OR ANOTHER THAT HE MIGHT BE
FRAMED.
THEN THERE WERE TWO OF HIS
SISTERS THAT WERE SITTING IN THE
FRONT ROW WHICH WAS PERHAPS THE
MOST DRAMATIC MOMENT OF THE
SHORT APPEARANCE THAT HE HAD
TODAY.
THAT INVOLVED ONE OF HIS SISTERS
CRYING AS SHE LISTENED TO
DZHOKHAR TSARNAEV SAY REPEATEDLY
THAT HE WAS NOT GUILTY.
HE ALSO HAD ANOTHER SISTER WITH
A BABY THERE.
>> Ifill: 30 CHARGES AGAINST
HIM.
HE REPEATEDLY, AS YOU POINTED
OUT, SAID NOT
A STRONG VOICE AND A LOUD VOICE,
DEFIANTLY?
ANY WAY THAT YOU CAN
CHARACTERIZE THAT HAD.
>> YOU KNOW, I THINK IT WAS A
SIGN OF.  .. THAT ANSWERED A
QUESTION THAT A LOT OF US HAD
WHICH WAS WHAT CONDITION WAS HE
IN AFTER HE HAD BEEN PULLED OUT
OF A BOAT IN THE BACKYARD OF A
SUBURB OF BOSTON CALLED
WATERTOWN WHERE WE LAST SAW HIS
BODY BLOODIED.
HE APPARENTLY HAD BEEN SHOT NEAR
THE THROAT AND SUFFERED OTHER
WOUNDS.
HE APPEARED REMARKABLY HEALTHY.
WHEN HE SAID HE WAS NOT GUILTY,
HE SAID IT EMPHATICALLY.
>> Ifill: WHAT ARE THE MOST
SERIOUS CHARGES OF THE ONES HE'S
FACING?
>> WELL, HE FACES OF THE 30
CHARGES, I BELIEVE, 17 CARRY THE
POSSIBILITY OF THE DEATH
PENALTY.
THE OTHERS CARRY LIFE IN PRISON
WITHOUT THE POSSIBILITY OF
PAROLE.
AND THERE ARE A RANGE OF...
THERE ARE A RANGE OF CHARGES
THAT INVOLVE USING WEAPONS OF
MASS DESTRUCTION ESSENTIALLY.
>> Ifill: IS MASSACHUSETTS A
DEATH PENALTY STATE?
WOULD THAT BE AN OPTION?
>> WELL, THIS IS A FEDERAL CASE
SO FEDERAL LAW WOULD APPLY.
1988, THE FEDERAL DEATH PENALTY
WAS REINSTATED.
MASSACHUSETTS HASN'T HAD A DEATH
SENTENCE CARRIED OUT IN 66
YEARS.
AND IT WOULD PROBABLY HAVE TO BE
CARRIED OUT OUTSIDE OF
MASSACHUSETTS AS THERE ARE NO
DEATH CHAMBER FACILITIES IN THIS
STATE.
>> Ifill: WITH VICTIMS IN THE
COURTROOM, WAS THERE ANY
OPPORTUNITY GIVEN TO THEM TO
SPEAK OR TO PARTICIPATE IN THIS
PROCEEDING AT ALL?
>> SO THIS WAS A SHORT
PROCEEDING.
IT WAS AN ARRAIGN: AS YOU SAID
AT THE OUTSET, IT LASTED ONLY
SEVEN MINUTES.
THE VICTIMS DIDN'T HAVE AN
OPPORTUNITY TO SPK,EA BUT I'M
SURE OVER THE COURSE OF THIS
CASE WHICH MAY LAST FOR SEVERAL
YEARS I IMAGINE THEY WILL HAVE
AN OPPORTUNITY TO CONFRONT THE
DEFENDANT.
>> Ifill: NOW THERE WERE LINES
TO GET INSIDE.
SUPPORTERS AND OPPONENTS.
THE MEDIA AS WELL AS THE PUBLIC.
AND AFTER ALL OF THE BUILD-UP,
AFTER ALL THE ANTICIPATION,
AFTER IT WAS OVER, WAS THERE A
LETDOWN?
>> YOU KNOW, I THINK, AS I SAID
AT THE OUTSET, IT WAS VERY
EMOTIONAL.
FOR ME AS WELL.
AS YOU SAID, I WAS STANDING ON
THE FINISH LINE.
I HAD TAKEN A LOT OF THE FOOTAGE
FOR A FILM THAT I WAS MAKING
THAT GOT BROADCAST ALL OVER THE
PLACE.
AND I WITNESSED A HORROR THAT,
AS A REPORTER, I NEVER HOPE TO
SEE AGAIN.
AND I THINK FOR A LOT OF US, WE
WANTED TO SEE WHAT THIS YOUNG
MAN LOOKED LIKE AND TO GET A
SENSE OF HIM.
I THINK THE TAKE-AWAY FOR A LOT
OF US IS THAT HE'S HEALTHY.
HE BELIEVES THAT HE'S INNOCENT,
HOWEVER THAT MAY WELL BE
CHARACTERIZED IN THE TRIAL.
AND WE'LL SEE HOW THE JUSTICE
PROCESS UNFOLDS FROM THIS POINT.
>> Ifill: DAVID ABEL OF THE
BOSTON GLOBE, THANKS FOR BEING
THERE FOR US.
>> Woodruff: STILL TO COME ON
THE NEWSHOUR, TWO HOUSE MEMBERS
ON IMMIGRATION REFORM.
ILDRCHEN LABORING IN AFRICA'S
GOLD MINES.
GIFTS FOR A GOVERNOR AND HIS
FAMILY AND POETRY FROM A CHINESE
DISSIDENT BUT FIRST THE OTHER
NEWS OF THE DAY.
HERE'S SREENIVASAN.
>> Sreenivasan: THE DEFENSE
RESTED IN TWO MAJOR TRIALS
TODAY.
>> Sreenivasan: THE DEFENSE
RESTED IN TWO OTHER MAJOR TRIALS
TODAY.
LAWYERS FOR GEORGE ZIMMERMAN
WOUND UP THEIR CASE IN SANFORD,
FLORIDA.
THE NEIGHBORHOOD WATCH VOLUNTEER
IS CHARGED WITH FATALLY SHOOTING
TRAYVON MARTIN LAST YEAR.
THE 17-YEAR-OLD WAS UNARMED, AND
THE CASE DREW NATIONAL
ATTENTION.
ZIMMERMAN TOLD JUDGE DEBRA
NELSON THIS AFTERNOON THAT HE
WOULD NOT TAKE THE STAND.
>> WHAT IS YOUR DECISION SIR?
>> AFTER CONSULTING WITH COUNSEL
NOT TO TESTIFY YOUR HONOR.
>> YOU UNDERSTAND THAT NO MATTER
WHAT COUNSEL SAYS TO YOU IT'S
STILL YOUR DECISION, DO YOU
UNDERSTAND THAT?
>> YES, YOUR HONOR.
>> AND I NEED TO KNOW IS IT YOUR
DECISION TO NOT TESTIFY IN THIS
CASE.
>> YES YOUR HONOR.
>> AND ARE YOU MAKING THAT
DECISION FREELY AND VOLUNTARILY?
>> YES YOUR HONOR.
>> Sreenivasan: ZIMMERMAN HAS
SAID HE ACTED IN SELF-DEFENSE.
AND MUCH OF THE TESTIMONY HAS
TURNED ON WHO WAS HEARD YELLING
FOR HELP, ON A 9-1-1 RECORDING.
TODAY, HIS FATHER, ROBERT
ZIMMERMAN, RECALLED
INVESTIGATORS PLAYING THE TAPE
FOR HIM.
>> I LISTENED TO IT.
THEN THEY ASKED ME DID I
RECOGNIZE THE VOICE?
>> AND WHAT DID YOU TELL THEM?
I TOLD THEM ABSOLUTELY IT'S
MY SON GEORGE.
>> IS THAT AN OPINION THAT YOU
STILL HAVE THROUGH TODAY?
>> CERTAINLY.
>> Sreenivasan: OTHER WITNESSES,
INCLUDING TRAYVON MARTIN'S
MOTHER, HAVE TESTIFIED THE CRIES
FOR HELP CAME FROM THE TEEN-
AGER.
DEFENSE LAWYERS ALSO RESTED IN
THE COURT MARTIAL OF THE SOLDIER
WHO GAVE THOUSANDS OF CLASSIFIED
DOCUMENTS TO WIKILEAKS.
ARMY PRIVATE FIRST CLASS BRADLEY
MANNING DID NOT TESTIFY.
BUT HE HAS SAID HE ACTED TO
EXPOSE WHAT HE CALLS THE U.S.
MILITARY'S BLOODLUST IN IRAQ AND
AFGHANISTAN.
MANNING FACES 21 CHARGES,
INCLUDING AIDING THE ENEMY.
THE HEAD OF A CHICAGO-BASED
RAILROAD ACCUSED AN ENGINEER
TODAY IN SATURDAY'S FIERY TRAIN
WRECK IN CANADA.
EDWARD BURKHARDT SAID HE
BELIEVES THE MAN FAILED TO SET
THE BRAKES PROPERLY ON A TRAIN
LOADED WITH CRUDE OIL.
BURKHARDT MADE THE ACCUSATION AS
HE VISITED THE QUEBEC TOWN WHERE
20 PEOPLE WERE KILLED, AND 30
BUILDINGS WERE BURNED TO THE
GROUND.
OFFICIALS ALSO SAID THE NUMBER
OF MISSING  OR FEARED DEAD.
THE CRACKDOWN ON THE MUSLIM
BROTHERHOOD IS INTENSIFYING IN
EGYPT.
PROSECUTORS ORDERED THE ARREST
TODAY OF THE GROUP'S LEADER
MOHAMMED BADIE AND ACCUSED HIM
OF INCITING MONDAY'S VIOLENCE IN
CAIRO THAT KILLED MORE THAN 50
PEOPLE.
SUPPORTERS OF THE BROTHERHOOD
AND DEPOSED PRESIDENT MOHAMED
MORSI DEFIED THE CRACKDOWN AND
CONTINUED THEIR PROTESTS.
>> ( translated ): EVEN IF THEY
ARRESTED ALL THE GROUP'S
MEMBERS, WE WILL SACRIFICE
OURSELVES AND WE WILL CONTINUE
BECAUSE WE HAVE A CLEAR CASE,
AND WE WILL DEFEND ITLY, BECAUSE
THE LEGITIMACY, AND WE WILL
NEVER ACCEPT THE MILITARY
COUNCIL'S COUP.
ALSO TODAY, THE NEWLY-NAMED
PRIME MINISTER HAZEM EL-BEBLAWI
WORKED ON FORMING HIS NEW
CABINET.
BUT, THE MUSLIM BROTHERHOOD
SIGNALED IT WI REJLLECT ANY
OFFER TO PLAY A ROLE IN THE
TRANSITIONAL GOVERNMENT.
THE ABORTION FIGHT IN TEXAS HAS
MOVED INTO A NEW ROUND.
TODAY, REPUBLICANS IN THE STATE
HOUSE PUSHED THROUGH A BILL THAT
WOULD BAN ABORTION AFTER 20
WEEKS, AMONG OTHER THINGS.
THE BILL NOW HEADS TO THE STATE
SENATE, WHERE IT DIED TWO WEEKS
AGO IN THE FACE OF A DEMOCRATIC
FILIBUSTER AND HEATED PROTESTS.
AFTER THAT, GOVERNOR RICK PERRY
CLED ALA SECOND, SPECIAL
SESSION.
A FINAL VOTE COULD COME FRIDAY.
THE U.S. SENATE FAILED AGAIN
TODAY TO LOWER INTEREST RATES ON
STUDENT LOANS.
THE RATES ON FEDERALLY
AFFORD LOANS
DOUBLED TO 6.8% ON JULY FIRST.
DEMOCRATS WANTED TO RETURN TO
3.4% FOR ONE MORE YEAR.
BUT, THEY FELL WELL SHORT OF THE
60 VOTES NEEDED TO FORCE ACTION.
NEW MEXICO SENATOR MARK UDALL
SAID THERE IS NO EXCUSE FOR
INACTION.
>> WE SAW THIS COMING.
THIS BUS HAS BEEN APPROACHING A
CLIFF FOR A YEAR; THAT OUGHT TO
BE TIME ENOUGH TO TURN IT
AROUND.
AND TURN IT AROUND WITHOUT
THROWING STUDENTS UNDERNEATH IT.
I KNOW MANY OF MY COLLEAGUES
HERE ARE TRYING, TRYING TO FIND
A LONG-TERM SOLUTION.
BUT TODAY WE FAILED.
AND OUR NATION'S STUDENTS PAY
THE COST OF THAT FAILURE.
>> Sreenivasan: REPUBLICANS WANT
TO LINK THE COST OF STUDENT
LOANS TO RATES IN FINANCIAL
MARKETS.
SENATOR KELLY AYOTTE OF NEW
HAMPSHIRE ARGUED IT'S MORE
IMPORTANT TO WORK OUT A LONG-
TERM ARRANGEMENT, AND NOT A
TEMPORARY PATCH TO THE PROBLEM.
>> THIS IS SUCH A COMPLETE,
TYPICAL SHINWAGTON DEAL.
HERE WE JUST VOTED ON A PROPOSAL
ON THE FLOOR AND THAT PROPOSAL
IS A ONE YEAR FIX, ONLY APPLIES
TO 40% OF STUDENT LOANS SO WE'D
BE BACK AGAIN NEXT YEAR LIKE
GROUNDHOG DAY TRYING TO FIX THIS
PROBLEM AGAIN.
>> Sreenivasan: AFTER THE VOTE,
LAWMAKERS FROM BOTH SIDES SAID
THEY WILL GO BACK TO THE
NEGOTIATING TABLE, TO TRY TO
WORK OUT A DEAL.
A FEDERAL JUDGE IN NEW YORK
RULED TODAY THAT APPLE CONSPIRED
WITH FIVE MAJOR PUBLISHERS TO
RAISE THE PRICE OF ELECTRONIC
BOOKS.
SHE ORDERED A TRIAL ON DAMAGES
IN THE ANTI-TRUST CASE.
APPLE HAD REFUSED TO SETTLE THE
CIVIL CASE, AND SAID IT WILL
APPEAL THE JUDGE'S FINDING.
THE PUBLISHERS HAVE SETTLED THE
CHARGES AGAIN THESTM, FOR MORE
THAN $166 MILLION.
ON WALL STREET, THE DOW JONES
INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE LOST EIGHT
POINTS TO CLOSE AT 15,291.
THE NASDAQ ROSE 16 POINTS TO
CLOSE AT 3,520.
THOSE ARE SOME OF THE DAY'S
MAJOR STORIES.
NOW, BACK TO JUDY.
>> Woodruff: AND WE TURN TO
POLITICS, WITH ANOTHER IN OUR
SERIES EXAMINING IMMIGRATION
REFORM.
THIS WEEK'S FOCUS: WHAT THE
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES WILL
DO.
LATE TODAY, G.O.P. LEADERS SAID
THEIR MEMBERS DECIDED THE
CHAMBER WILL NOT TAKE UP A
SENATE-PASSED MEASURE.
RAY SUAREZ HAS BEEN COVERING THE
STORY.
>> Suarez: ALL 234 HOUSE
REPUBLICANS WERE INVITED TO THE
MEETING WITH HOUSE SPEAKER JOHN
BOEHNER THIS AFTERNOON.
THE TOPIC: HOW TO HANDLE
IMMIGRATION REFORM.
>> I THINK THE LEADERSHIP WANTS
JUDGE THE TEMPERATURE OF THE
MEMBERS AND I THINK AGAIN IT'S
GOING TO COME BACK TO THE
CENTERPIECE OF SECURITY.
>> THERE IS NO CONVERSATION
UNTIL WE ACTUALLY SECURE THE
BORDER.
THE BORDER ISN'T SECURE AND THE
LAST THING WE'RE GOING TO DO IS
VOTE FOR A BILL THAT'S GOING TO
HURT THE MIDDLE CLASS AND STEAL
JOBS AWAY FROM THE MIDDLE CLASS
AND DEPRESS WAGES.
>> Suarez: THE MEETING CAME AMID
CALLS BY REFORM ADVOCATES TO
TAKE UP THE SENATE BILL THAT
PASSED LAST MONTH,  BY A BI-
PARTISAN MAJORITY.
>> ON THIS VOTE THE YEAS ARE 68,
NAYS ARE 32, THE BILL AS AMENDED
IS PASSED.
>> Suarez: THAT BILL CREATES A
PATHWAY TO CITIZENSHIP FOR SOME
11 MILLION PEOPLE NOW IN THE
COUNTRY ILLEGALLY, SOMETHING
DEMOCRATS INSIST IS NON-
NEGOTIABLE.
THE MEASURE ALSO CALLS FOR
DOUBLING THE NUMBER OF BORDER
PATROL AGENTS AND ADDING 700
MILES OF NEW FENCING ALONG THE
SOUTHERN BORDER.
ON THE HOUSE SIDE, BOEHNER HAS
SO FAR REFUSED TO TAKE UP THE
SENATE BILL.
INSTEAD, HIS REPUBLICANS ARE
WORKING ON FOUR SEPARATE BILLS,
WITH A HEAVY FOCUS ON BORDER
SECURITY.
NONE OFFERS CITIZENSHIP.
BUT THE PRESSURE TO ACT IS
GROWING.
A GROUP OF SO-CALLED "DREAMERS,"
UNDOCUMENTED IMMIGRANTS BROUGHT
TO THE COUNTRY AS CHILDREN, HELD
A MOCK CITIZENSHIP CEREMONY
TODAY AT THE U.S. CAPITOL.
AND IN DALLAS, FORMER PRESIDENT
GEORGE W. BUSH ADDRESSED A
NATURALIZATION CEREMONY AT HIS
PRESIDENTIAL LIBRARY,
URGING A POSITIVE RESOLUTION.
>> WE CAN UPHOLD OUR TRADITIONS
OF ASSIMILATING IMMIGRANTS AND
HONORING OUR NATION BUILT ON A
RULE OF LAW, BUT WE HAVE A
PROBLEM.
THE LAWS GOVERNING THE
IMMIGRATION SYSTEM AREN'T
WORKING.
THE SYSTEM IS BROKEN.
>> Suarez: BACK IN WASHINGTON,
THE OBAMA WHITE HOUSE RELEASED A
LENGTHY REPORT TOUTING THE
ECONOMIC BENEFITS OF IMMIGRATION
REFORM.
IT CLAIMED THE SENATE BILL WOULD
BOOST ECONOMIC GROWTH ANOTHER
3.3%, BY 2023.
AND WOULD REDUCE THE DEFICIT BY
ALMOST $850 BILLION OVER 20
YEARS.
PRESIDENT OBAMA ALSO CALLED IN
MEMBERS OF THE HISPANIC CAUCUS.
DEMOCRATIC CONGRESSMAN JOAQUIN
CASTRO OF TEXAS VOICED HOPE FOR
A COMPROMISE.
>> LIKE US HE REALIZES THAT
EFFORT MUST BE BOTH A REPUBLICAN
AND A DEMOCRATIC EFFORT.
IT REQUIRES THE WORK AND
COOPERATION OF BOTH PARTIES AND
THIS PRESIDENT IS COMMITTED TO
WORKING WITH NOT ONLY HOUSE
DEMOCRATS, BUT ALSO HOUSE
REPUBLICANS ON GETTING IT DONE.
SPEAKER BOEHNER AND OTHER PARTY
LEADERS ISSUED A STATEMENT
REFIRMING THEY WILL NOT TAKE UP
THE SENATE BILL WHICH LEAVES THE
FOCUS SQUARELY ON THE NEXT THREE
WEEKS.
HOUSE REPUBLICANS HAVE SAID THEY
MEAN TO BRING IMMIGRATION TO A
VOTE BETWEEN NOW AND THE
MONTH-LONG RECESS THAT BEGINS IN
EARLY AUGUST.
FOR MORE ON THE OPTIONS BEING
CONSIDERED IN THE HOUSE, WE ARE
JOINED BY ILLINOIS DEMOCRAT LUIS
GUTIERREZ, ALSO A MEMBER OF THE
JUDICIARY COMMITTEE, AND CHAIR
OF THE CONGRESSIONAL HISPANIC
CAUCUS IMMIGRATION TASK FORCE.
CONGRESSMAN, WELCOME BACK TO THE
PROGRAM.
>> THANK YOU, RAY.
GOOD TO BE WITH YOU THIS
EVENING.
>> Suarez: EARLIER TODAY, THE
PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES
MET WITH THE HISPANIC CAUCUS.
WHAT DID HE HAVE TO TELL YOU
ABOUT THE FUTURE OF IMMIGRATION
REFORM?
>> IT'S ALIVE.
IT'S WELL.
IT'S BROAD.
IT'S SPANSIVE.
AND HE'S GOING TO SUPPORT
IMMIGRATION REFORM.
HE'S COMMITTED TO GETTING IT
DONE AND TO WORKING IN
COLLABORATION WITH WIDE BROAD
SECTORS OF AMERICAN SOCIETY TO
GET IT DONE.
IT WAS A REALLY FRUITFUL
MEETING.
WE TALKED ABOUT THAT, ABOUT
APPOINTMENTS, THE VOTING RIGHTS
ACT.
THERE ARE A SERIES OF ISSUES WE
GOT TO TALK ABOUT FIRST AND
FOREMOST IMMIGRATION BUT
OBVIOUSLY OTHER ISSUES THAT CAME
FORWARD.
I THOUGHT IT WAS A VERY FRUITFUL
MEETING.
>> Saurez: INTERESTING THAT YOU
SAY ALIVE AND WELL GIVEN THAT
THE VERSIONS COMING OUT OF THE
HOUSE MAJORITY ARE VERY
DIFFERENT FROM WHAT THE SENATE
PASSED RECENTLY.
IS THERE EVEN ENOUGH COMMONALITY
FOR THE TWO VERSIONS TO GO TO
RECONCILIATION?
IS THERE ANYTHING TO TALK ABOUT?
>> SURE, I THINK THERE'S A LOT
TO TALK ABOUT.
FIRST OF ALL, RAY, HERE'S WHAT I
UNDERSTAND AND WHAT IS COMMON
KNOWLEDGE IN THE HOUSE OF
REPRESENTATIVES.
THE FACT IS THAT A MAJORITY OF
MEMBERS.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
UNPRECEDENTED IN MY 20 YEARS IN
CONGRESS, A MAJORITY OF
MEMBERS -- REPUBLICANS AND
DEMOCRATS -- ARE READY TO VOTE
FOR COMPREHENSIVE IMMIGRATION
REFORM.
ALL SPEAKER BOEHNER HAS TO DO IS
TO ALLOW DEMOCRACY TO REIGN IN
THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
ALLOW A VOTE.
TAKE TEN MINUTES OUT OF HIS
SCHEDULE AND ALLOW A VOTE.
PUT THE DIFFERENT OPTIONS.
I ASSURE YOU WE WILL GO TO
RECONCILIATION AND WE WILL FIX
OUR BROKEN IMMIGRATION.
PAUL RYAN, A SIGNIFICANT MEMBER,
PRESTIGIOUS MEMBER, A
REPUBLICAN, OF THE HOUSE OF
REPRESENTATIVES, HE'S WORKING,
MANY REPUBLICANS, THERE ARE MANY
REPUBLICANS, MEN AND WOMEN, THAT
WANT COMPREHENSIVE IMMIGRATION
REFORM.
IF THE SPEAKER WOULD SIMPLY
ALLOW THEM TO JOIN DEMOCRATS, WE
COULD DO THE WILL OF THE PEOPLE.
>> Suarez: BUT THE
REPUBLICAN-SPONSORED HOUSE BILLS
DO NOT INCLUDE A PATH TO
CITIZENSHIP.
IF YOU GO TO RECONCILIATION, ARE
THE DEMOCRATS GOING TO HAVE TO
CONCEDE THAT POINT OR ARE THE
REPUBLICANS GOING TO HAVE TO DO
WHAT THE SPEAKER HAS ALREADY
SAID THEY WON'T: NOT VOTE FOR A
BILL THAT THE MAJORITY OF THEIR
CAUCUS SUPPORTS?
>> THAT'S THE KIND OF DECISION I
THINK THAT SPEAKER BOEHNER IS
GOING TO HAVE TO MAKE.
IS HE GOING TO BE A SPEAKER THAT
RESPONDS AND ALLOWS THE HOUSE OF
REPRESENTATIVES AND THE WILL OF
THE AMERICAN PEOPLE TO BE
DICTATED BY A MINORITY GROUP OF
THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES?
OR IS HE GOING TO ALLOW THE
EXPRESSION OF THE MAJORITY OF
MEMBERS OF THE HOUSE, WHICH IS
AN EXPRESSION AND A REFLECTION
OF THE ELECTORATE?
LOOK, HE'S GOING TO HAVE TO MAKE
THAT DECISION, WHETHER HE IS
GOING TO BE THE STATESMAN AND
THE ONE THAT IS GOING TO RESOLVE
OUR BROKEN IMMIGRATION SYSTEM OR
WHETHER... BECAUSE WHAT THEY'RE
SAYING, RAY, IS IT'S OUR WAY OR
NO WAY.
JUST THINK ABOUT IT.
THE CHAMBER OF COMMERCE,
AFL-CIO, "NEW YORK TIMES," WALL
STREET JOURNAL, BAPTISTS AND
EVANGELICALS, CATHOLICS AND LUTE
RANS.
LOOK AT THE SPANSIVENESS AND THE
DEPTH OF THE MOVEMENT.
EVERYBODY IS MAKING COMPROMISES
AND REACHING MIDDLE GROUND.
REPUBLICANS AND DEMOCRATS.
THEY DID IT IN THE SENATE.
WHY IS IT THE ONLY BODY OF
PEOPLE THAT CAN'T FIND A VERSION
THAT THEY CAN RESOLVE AROUND IS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES?
WHY MUST THE HOUSE OF
REPRESENTATIVES SAY NO, NO AND
NO?
LOOK, YOU'RE EITHER GOING TO
HAVE COMPROMISE.
YOU'RE GOING TO HAVE
BIPARTISANSHIP OR WE AREN'T
GOING TO GET ANYTHING DONE.
I THINK THE REPUBLICAN PARTY
REALLY HAS TO BEGIN TO
UNDERSTAND THEY CAN BE A PARTY
OF PROVINCES AND REGIONS AND
STATES -- MAYBE SOME CITIES --
BUT THEY WILL NEVER BE A PARTY,
A NATIONAL PARTY FOR THE NEXT
GENERATION IN THE UNITED STATES
OF AMERICA BECAUSE IF THEY DO
NOT DO THIS, THEY SIMPLY WILL
NEVER HAVE THE ABILITY TO BE A
PARTY AT A NATIONAL SCALE.
>> Suarez: VERY QUICKLY, SIR.
THE CLOCK IS TICKING.
YOU HAVE THREE WEEKS TO DO THIS.
IS THAT REALLY PLAUSIBLE?
>> LOOK, WE'VE GOT TIME.
IT'S ON OUR SIDE.
WE CAN GET THIS DONE.
THE FACT IS, I'M GOING TO
CONTINUE TO WORK WITH RAUL
LABRADOR.
I'M GOING TO CONTINUE TO WORK
WITH PAUL RYAN.
I'M GOING TO CONTINUE.
THEY WILL CONTINUE, LUCKILY FOR
ME AND FOR THE I AM GRANT
COMMUNITY, THEY'RE GOING TO
CONTINUE TO WORK WITH ME.
WE'RE GOING TO GET THIS DONE.
TIME IS ON OUR SIDE.
>> Suarez: CONGRESSMAN LUIS
GUTIERREZ, DEMOCRAT OF ILLINOIS,
THANKS FOR JOINING US.
>> THANK YOU, RAY.
Suarez: AND NOW TO REPUBLICAN
RAUL LABRADOR FROM IDAHO.
EARLIER TODAY YOUR CONFERENCE
HAD A MEETING, ALL THE HOUSE
REPUBLICANS GETTING TOGETHER.
WHAT DID THE SPEAKER HAVE TO SAY
ABOUT THE FUTURE OF IMMIGRATION
REFORM?
>> THE SPEAKER JUST WANTED TO US
HAVE AN HONEST CONVERSATION
ABOUT WHAT WE NEEDD TOE DO TO
HEAR OUR CONCERNS ABOUT
IMMIGRATION REFORM AND WHETHER
WE HAD ANY IDEAS ON A PATH
FORWARD.
WE ALSO HAD THE CHAIRMAN OF THE
JUDICIARY AND THE CHAIRMAN OF
HOMELAND SECURITY PRESENT WHAT
WE HAVE ALREADY DONE IN THOSE
COMMITTEES AND KIND OF GIVE A
PRESENTATION TO THE CONFERENCE
ON WHAT THE BILL SAID THAT HAVE
BEEN HEARD ALREADY ARE DOING FOR
THE FUTURE OF IMMIGRATION.
>> Suarez: DO THE VARIOUS BILLS
COMING OUT OF THE HOUSE
MAJORITY, YOUR PARTY, PROVIDE
ENOUGH IN COMMON WITH THE
BIPARTISAN BILL COMING OUT OF
THE SENATE TO GO TO CONFERENCE?
IS THERE ENOUGH FOR YOU TO START
CONFERRING ON?
>> I DON'T THINK THERE'S ENOUGH
TO START CONFERRING YET.
BUT I THINK LINE BY LINE WE'RE
GOING... WHAT WE'RE DOING IS A
STEP-BY-STEP APPROACH THAT
EVENTUALLY WILL DEAL WITH THE
ISSUE COMPREHENSIVELY.
SO I THINK YOU'RE GOING TO SEE
MAYBE TWO OR THREE ADDITIONAL
BILLS COMING OUT OF THE HOUSE
JUDICIARY COMMITTEE, AND THOSE
SIX OR SEVEN BILLS WILL TOGETHER
DEAL WITH THE ISSUE OF
IMMIGRATION REFORM
COMPREHENSIVELY.
>> Suarez: NONE OF THE
REPUBLICAN BILLS INCLUDE A PATH
TO CITIZENSHIP.
MANY DEMOCRATS ARE SAYING THAT'S
THEIR BOTTOM LINE THAT IT'S GOT
TO BE IN THERE.
DOES ONE SIDE OR ANOTHER REALLY
HAVE TO GIVE ON THAT MAJOR POINT
IN ORDER TO MOVE FORWARD?
>> I THINK THE DEMOCRATS ARE
GOING TO HAVE TO GIVE.
IF WE CAN MEET THEM 60% OF THE
WAY, 70% OF THE WAY, 80% OF THE
WAY AND THEY ACTUALLY REJECT
COMPREHENSIVE APPROACH TO
IMMIGRATION REFORM, THEN THEY'RE
SAYING THAT THEY DON'T REALLY
WANT TO GET IMMIGRATION REFORM
DONE.
THERE ARE SO MANY OTHER THINGS
THAT WE SHOULD BE TALKING ABOUT.
WE HAVE A POROUS BORDER.
WE HAVE BORDER SECURITY ISSUES.
WE HAVE PEOPLE THAT ARE COMING
INTO THE UNITED STATES THAT WE
DON'T KNOW WHO THEY ARE AND
WHETHER THEY'RE LEAVING THE
UNITED STATES.
WE HAVE A GUEST-WORKER PROGRAM
THAT IS NOT WORKING.
WE HAVE FARM LABOR THAT IT NEEDS
ACTUALLY TO HAVE LEGAL STATUS.
THERE ARE SO MANY THINGS THAT WE
NEED TO DO.
IF WE GET BOGGED DOWN ON
ACTUALLY THE PATHWAY TO
CITIZENSHIP, THAT MEANS THAT THE
DEMOCRATS ARE NOT REALLY SERIOUS
ABOUT SOLVING THIS PROBLEM.
>> Suarez: JUST A SHORT TIME AGO
LUIS GUTIERREZ, YOUR COLLEAGUE
ON THIS PROGRAM SAID THAT IF THE
SPEAKER WOULD ALLOW THE BILL TO
COME TO THE FLOOR BEINGS IT
WOULD PASS AND THAT BOTH THE
MAJORITY OF REPUBLICANS AND
DEMOCRATS WOULD VOTE FOR IT.
>> DOES HE MEAN THE SENATE BILL?
Suarez: THE SENATE BILL.
YOU KNOW, LUIS IS A GREAT
FRIEND OF MINE.
WE HAVE A GREAT RELATIONSHIP.
BUT HE'S ABSOLUTELY WRONG.
THERE'S NOT A MAJORITY OF
REPUBLICANS, NOT EVEN CLOSE TO
ENOUGH REPUBLICANS TO GET
SOMETHING OFF THE HOUSE FLOOR
WITH THE SENATE BILL.
THE SENATE BILL HAS BEEN EWEN
VERSEALLY PENNED BY THE
REPUBLICANS.
THE PHONE CALLS WE'RE GETTING IN
OUR OFFICES ARE 10 TO 1 AGAINST
THE SENATE BILL.
I JUST SAW MY WAY OVER HERE TO
THE INTERVIEW THERE'S A NEW POLL
THAT THE AMERICAN PEOPLE SUPPORT
THE SENATE BILL BY 38%.
I JUST DON'T THINK THAT THE
AMERICAN PEOPLE OR THE HOUSE HAS
ENOUGH SUPPORT FOR THE SENATE
BILL BUT, YOU KNOW, I DON'T WANT
TO KNOCK WHAT THEY DID.
THEY TRIED T TO  COMPREHENSIVE
APPROACH TO IMMIGRATION REFORM.
THEY DID WHAT COULD GET PASSED
OUT OF THE SENATE.
NOW IT'S OUR TURN AS REPUBLICANS
IN THE HOUSE TO DO WHAT CAN GET
PASSED OUT OF THE HOUSE OF
REPRESENTATIVES.
>> Suarez: EARLIER ON THE
PROGRAM WE HEARD FORMER
PRESIDENT GEORGE W. BUSH URGING
YOU FORWARD IN YOUR WORK.
DOES HE HAVE MUCH INFLUENCE IN
THE REPUBLICAN CAUCUS IN THE
HOUSE TODAY?
>> WELL, I THINK YOU HAVE TO
RESPECT WHATEVER AN EX-PRESIDENT
HAS SAID.
I THINK THAT I HEARD THE SAME
WORDS THAT HE SAID.
HE WASN'T SAYING THAT HE
SUPPORTED ANY SPECIFIC APPROACH.
TO IMMIGRATION REFORM.
BUT I THINK HE BELIEVES, LIKE I
DO, THAT IMMIGRATION REFORM IS
IMPORTANT, THAT IT'S NECESSARY,
THAT IT'S GOOD FOR AMERICA AND
THAT WE SHOULD DO SOMETHING
ABOUT IT.
I THINK, YOU KNOW, WE CAN MOVE
FORWARD WITH SOMETHING POSITIVE
HERE IN THE HOUSE.
>> Suarez: RAUL LABRADOR IS A
REPUBLICAN FROM IDAHO.
CONGRESSMAN, THANKS FOR JOINING
US.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Suarez: OUR NEXT CONVERSATION
IS WITH ARIZONA DEMOCRAT RAUL
GRIJALVA.
WATCH OTHER INTERVIEWS FROM OUR
SERIES, AND LEARN MORE ABOUT
WHAT'S IN THE LEGISLATION, ON
OUR IMMIGRATION PAGE.
>> Ifill: NEXT, THE HIGH COST OF
MINING FOR PRECIOUS METALS.
A GOLD RUSH HAS BROUGHT NEW
OPPORTUNITIES TO THE DESPERATELY
POOR NATION OF BURKINA FASO IN
WEST AFRICA.
BUT ALONG WITH RICHES HAVE COME
PERILS, ESPECIALLY FOR THE YOUNG
CHILDREN WHO WORK IN THE
DANGEROUS MINES.
PHOTOJOURNALIST LARRY C. PRICE,
IN COLLABORATION WITH THE
PULITZEN
REPORTING, RECENTLY VISITED
SEVERAL MINING COMMUNITIES TO
DOCUMENT THE CONDITIONS.
OUR REPORT IS NARRATED BY HARI
SREENIVASAN.
>> Sreenivasan: THIS IS
THEOPHILE.
HE'S TOSSING SHARDS OF ORE INTO
A BUCKET 150 FEET BELOW GROUND.
HIS EYES ARE GLASSY AND HIS
MOVEMENTS ARE ROTE, TRAINED BY
REPETITION AND CIRCUMSTANCE.
DOWN IN THIS CRAMPED, HUMID
SPACE, THEOPHILE'S SMALL BODY
MOVES ABOUT MORE FREELY THAN AN
ADULT'S WOULD.
>> I THOUGHT I WAS NEAR THE
BOTTOM AND THEN I REALIZED
THERE'S ANOTHER 40 OR 50 FEET TO
GO.
>> Sreenivasan: A FACT
PHOTOJOURNALIST LARRY PRICE
FOUND OUT FOR HIMSELF AS HE
DESCENDED THE SHAFT TO MEET THE
BOY.
>> THIS SHAFT IS ABOUT FOUR TO
FIVE FEET IN DIAMETER AND AT ITS
NARROWEST ITS PROBABLY LESS THAN
28 INCHES, AND AS YOU CAN SEE
>> Sreenivasan: ABOVE GROUND IS
THE SMALL MINING VILLAGE OF
KOLLO, ONE OF THE MANY BOOMTOWNS
THAT'S SPRUNG UP OVER THE LAST
FEW YEARS IN BURKINA FASO.
SLIGHTLY LARGER THAN CORADOLO IN
ACREAGE-- AND AMONG THE POOREST
COUNTRIES IN THE WORLD-- THIS
LANDLOCKED NATION OF 18 MILLION
PEOPLE IS A RELATIVE NEWCOMER TO
THE GOLD TRADE.
BUT THE PRECIOUS METAL-- USED IN
EVERYTHING FROM JEWELRY TO
ELECTRONICS TO THE BASIS OF
CURRENCIES THE WORLD OVER-- HAS
IN SHORT ORDER OVERTAKEN COTTON
TO BECOME THE COUNTRY'S TOP
EXPORT COMMODITY.
A SIZABLE CHUNK OF THAT GOLD
COMES FROM SMALL-SCALE, OR
ARTISANAL, MINES, LIKE THESE.
AND MUCH OF THAT WORK IS DONE BY
CHILDREN.
THE U.N.'S INTERNATIONAL LABOR
ORGANIZATION ESTIMATES THAT
CHILDREN ACCOUNT FOR 30% TO 50%
OF THE SMALL-SCALE MINERS
WORKING IN THE AFRICAN SAHEL
REGION, WHICH INCLUDES BURKINA
FASO AND NIGER.
BUT THE ISSUE IS NOT RESTRICTED
TO THE CONTINENT.
>> IT'S A SIGNIFICANT PROBLEM
AROUND THE WORLD.
>> Sreenivasan: ERIC BIEL IS
ACTING ASSOCIATE DEPUTY
UNDERSECRETARY FOR INTERNATIONAL
AFFAIRS OF THE U.S. LABOR
DEPARTMENT, WHICH TRACKS CHILD
LABOR VIOLATIONS ACROSS THE
GLOBE.
ITS LATEST REPORT LISTS BURKINA
FASO AMONG 19 COUNTRIES ENGAGED
IN THE WORST FORMS OF CHILD
LABOR, AND BIEL SAYS THE MINES
THERE PRESENT CONSIDERABLE
CHALLENGES.
>> IT'S A MULTI-FACETED
SITUATION.
YOU'VE GOT THESE BOOM TOWNS THAT
ARE BEING SET UP WHERE BOTH
CHILDREN FROM BURKINA FASO ARE
LEAVING SCHOOL AND BEING
EMPLOYED THERE, BUT ALSO
CHILDREN ARE BEING TRAFFICKED
ACROSS BORDERS.
>> Sreenivasan: IT'S ILLEGAL TO
EMPLOY CHILDREN UNDER THE AGE OF
16 IN BURKINA FASO, AND BIEL
SAYS ITS GOVERNMENT HAS SHOWN IT
WANTS TO STOP THE PRACTICE.
BUT WITH AN ESTIMATED 200,000
ARTISANAL MINERS WORKING AT SOME
200 SITES, MANY IN REMOTE AREAS
LIKE THESE-- AND A STRONG
ECONOMIC PULL-- ENFORCEMENT HAS
BEEN DIFFICULT.
THE AVERAGE WORKER IN BURKINA
FASO EARNS LESS THAN $2 A DAY.
MEANWHILE A FAMILY EMPLOYED IN
ARTISINAL MINING CAN EARN
BETWEEN $5 AND $40 A DAY,
DEPENDING ON THE MINE.
THAT'S LED TO MANY PARENTS
PULLING THEIR OWN CHILDREN FROM
SCHOOL TO HELP IN THE MINES.
>> ( translated ): THEY SAY IF
GOLD IS FOUND SOMEWHERE, IT'S
HARD TO CALM THE ARDOR OF THE
GOLD DIGGERS.
>> Sreenivasan: GANNO DAOUDA IS
THE GENERAL SECRETARY TO THE
MAYOR'S OFFICE IN THE NEARBY
TOWN OF TIEBIELE.
SINCE 2011 HE SAYS HE'S WATCHED
THE KOLLO MINE STEADILY GROW TO
EMPLOY AROUND A THOUSAND PEOPLE.
BUT WITH THIS NEW ECONOMIC
OPPORTUNITY HE SAYS THERE HAVE
COME MANY PROBLEMS.
>> ( translated ): THE KIDS
PREFER QUICK CASH, PUTTING ASIDE
THEIR FUTURE.
IT IS A SERIOUS PROBLEM FOR US
BECAUSE CHILDREN ARE ALWAYS ON
THE SITE.
>> Sreenivasan: KARIM SAWADOGO
WAS ONCE A GOAT HERDER AT HIS
HOME IN THE NORTH AND ME TCAO
THIS MINE IN THE SOUTHWEST WITH
HIS UNCLE.
BAREFOOT, HE COOKS, FETCHES
WATER AND CLIMBS DOWN IN THE
MINES.
HE THINKS HE'S NINE YEARS OLD
BUT ISN'T SURE.
IN GENERAL YOUNG CHILDREN LIKE
HIM CARRY OUT THE MORE MENIAL
TASKS AT THE SITES, TRANSPORTING
WATER AND HEAVY LOADS OF ORE,
DIGGING PITS AND BREAKING UP
ROCKS WITH PRIMITIVE HAMMERS.
THE JOBS DOWN IN THE PITS ARE
TYPICALLY RESERVED FOR
TEENAGERS.
WITH ONLY TREE LIMBS TO BRACE
THE MINE WALLS, THE RISK TO THEM
IS REAL.
>> ( translated ): THE SITE DOES
NOT RESPECT ANY RULE.
OFTENTIMES THERE ARE DEADLY
COLLAPSES.
>> Sreenivasan: THE UNREGULATED
NATURE OF THIS WORK MAKES
RELIABLE STATISTICS HARD TO COME
BY.
BUT AS UNCERTAIN AS THE PITS
ARE, THE JOBS IN THE PROCESSING
AREAS, WHERE THE ORE IS
PULVERIZED, ARE POSSIBLY MORE
DANGEROUS.
SPUTTERING DIESEL ENGINES POWER
MAKE-SHIFT PULLEYS, GRINDING
PLATES AND BELTS, USED TO CRUSH
THE ORE INTO A FINE POWDER
THAT'S BAGGED TO BE TREATED
LATER.
ALONG WITH THE HAZARDS OF
BREATHING THIS FINE DUST MESCO
THE POTENTIAL FOR LOSING A
FINGER OR LIMB.
CHILDREN ALSO HELP PAN THE
POWDER WITH LIQUID MERCURY,
WHICH BINDS TO GOLD, THIS
AMALGAM IN TURN IS BURNED TO
SEPARATE THE GOLD, RELEASING
DANGEROUS VAPORS.
>> IT'S A GAMBLE.
PEOPLE ARE TRADING OFF THE MONEY
THEY MAKE NOW SELLING GOLD WITH
POTENTIALLY THEIR HEALTH AND
THEIR LIVES.
>> Sreenivasan: JOE AMON DIRECTS
THE HEALTH AND HUMAN RIGHTS
PROGRAM AT HUMAN RIGHTS WATCH,
WHICH RECENTLY STUDIED THIS SAME
ISSUE IN NEIGHBORING MALI.
>> CHILDREN SOMETIMES HAVE
EXPOSURE TO BOTH DIRECTLY, TO
TOUCHING THE MERCURY, AND THEN
ALSO TO THE VAPORS.
AND THAT CAN BE IF THEY'RE
WORKING ON THE GOLD ITSELF OR IF
THEY'RE SIMPLY AROUND THE FAMILY
COMPOUND WHERE THE GOLD IS BEING
ISOLATED W THE MERCURY OR IF
>>Sree nivasan: AMON SAYS THE
EFFECTS OF MERCURY POISONING ARE
BOTH DIFFICULT TO DIAGNOSE AND
VERY SERIOUS.
THEY INCLUDE NEUROLOGICAL
DAMAGE, IMPAIRED VISION,
RESPIRATORY CONDITIONS, KIDNEY
FAILURE, LONG-TERM MENTAL
DISABILITIES AND EVEN DEATH.
MEANWHILE, THE CONSTANT DUST
AROUND THE MINES CAN SETTLE
INSIDE THE LUNGS OF THESE
CHILDREN, CAUSING PERMANENT
DAMAGE.
>> ( translated ): THERE ARE A
LOT OF HEALTH-RELATED PROBLEMS.
OUR NURSES HERE ARE OVERWHELMED
BY CASES OF LUNG DISEASE CAUSED
BY DUST, AS THESE PEOPLE DO NOT
HAVE GOOD PROTECTION.
>> Sreenivasan: WATER IS SCARCE
IN THE DROUGHT-STRICKEN COUNTRY,
ESPECIALLY IN RURAL AREAS, SO
CHILDREN USE THE CONTAMINATED
COOLING WATER FROM THE MACHINERY
TO WASH THEIR FACES AND BRUSH
THEIR TEETH.
AFTER 12 TO 14 HOUR SHIFTS, THEY
TRY TO SLEEP NEAR THE DEAFENING
ROAR OF NEARBY MACHINES OR OVER
AN OPEN MINE PIT.
IT'S A RARE OCCASION, PERHAPS A
GAME OF FOOSBALL, WHEN THEY ACT
LIKE THE CHILDREN THEY ARE.
ARTISANAL MINING WASN'T ALWAYS
SO POPULAR IN BURKINA FASO.
IN 1985 THE COUNTRY SUFFERED A
PROLONGED DROUGHT AND THE
RESULTING FAMINE PUSHED MANY
FAMILIES OFF THEIR SUBSISTENCE
FARMS AND DOWN INTO THE MINES
FOR WORK.
GOLD FETCHED $300 AN OUNCE IN
1985, TODAY IT IS MORE THAN
$1,200 AN OUNCE, FUELING SUCH
RUDIMENTARY FORMS OF MINING IN
BURKINA FASO AND ELSEWHERE.
WHILE IT'S CLEAR THERE'S GOLD
LEAVING THESE BOOMTOWNS, IT IS
MUCH HARDER TO SAY WHERE THE
GOLD MAY ULTIMATELY END UP.
BURKINA FASO'S POROUS BORDERS
AND LARGE NETWORK OF MIDDLE MEN
MEAN A NUGGET FROM THESE MINES
CAN BE EASILY COMBINED WITH
OTHER SOURCES.
THE U.S. LABOR DEPARTMENT SAYS
THIS MAKES TRACING AND STOPPING
THE TRADE OF CHILD-MINED GOLD
EXTREMELY DIFFICULT.
>> IT'S NOT SOMETHING WHERE IT'S
AS EASY TO SAY, WELL, IF WE STOP
THE DEMAND FOR GOLD, WE CAN
TRACE THABACKT  TO WHAT'S
HAPPENING ON THE GROUND IN
BURKINA FASO.
SO TH IS ISONE WHERE WE REALLY
HAVE TO START WITH THE SUPPLY,
WITH THE CIRCUMSTANCE ON THE
GROUND, AND TRY TO GET AT, AS I
MENTIONED, THE ROOT CAUSES.
>> Sreenivasan: TO THAT END, IN
DECEMBER THE U.S. DEPARTMENT OF
LABOR ANNOUNCED A $5 MILLION
GRANT OVER FOUR YEARS TO COMBAT
CHILD LABOR IN BURKINA FASO.
>> WELL, WE CAN'T, AS THE U.S.
GOVERNMENT, SOLVE THE PROBLEM.
>> Sreenivasan: BIEL ADMITS THAT
RELATIVELY MINOR SUM WON'T END
THE PRACTICE, BUT HE SAYS IT'S
PART OF A BROADER EFFORT.
>> SO THERE'S NO ABILITY THROUGH
ONE GRANT, WHETHER IT'S $5
MILLION OR SOMETHING ELSE, TO
ADDRESS THE WHOLE PROBLEM.
BUT YOU CAN BEGIN TO GET AT SOME
OF THE ROOT CAUSES AND THROUGH
AWARENESS RAISING AND SO FORTH
HOPEFULLY BEGIN TO MAKE A
DIFFERENCE.
>> SO IT'S NOT GOING TO
DISAPPEAR OVERNIGHT.
>> Sreenivasan: JOE AMON, OF
HUMAN RIGHTS WATCH, AGREES, AND
SAYS EDUCATION CAN GO A LONG WAY
TOWARDS LIMITING CHILDREN'S
EXPOSURE TO THE WORST RISKS.
>> MANY OF THE FAMILIES THAT WE
TALKED TO HAD NEVER HEARD THAT
MERCURY WAS THE PROBLEM, THAT IT
HAD ANY IMPACT AT ALL.
AND SO AT THE VERY FUNDAMENTAL
LEVEL THERE NEEDS TO BE SOME
EDUCATION THAT'S DONE.
>> Sreenivasan: BACK AT THIS
MINING CAMP IN THE SOUTHWEST, AN
INTERPRETER ASKS KARIM SAWADOGO
WHAT HE WANTS TO DO WITH HIS
LIFE.
KARIM SAYS HE CAME HERE TO MAKE
MONEY, AND THAT HIS DREAM IS TO
MAKE ENOUGH SO THAT HE NEVER HAS
TO GO DOWN INTO THE NARROW MINES
AGAIN.
>> Ifill: YOU CAN FIND MORE OF
LARRY C. PRICE'S WORK FOR THE
PULITZER CENTER ON CRISIS
REPORTING ONLINE, INCLUDING A
DAY IN THE LIFE OF A CHILD
WORKING IN THE GOLD MINES.
PLUS, WE'VE POSTED LINKS TO
ADDITIONAL VIDEOS AND SLIDESHOWS
ON OUR WEBSITE.
>> Woodruff: THERE WAS MOUNTING
SCRUTINY TODAY OF VIRGINIA'S
GOVERNOR, AFTER THE LATEST IN A
SERIES OF REVELATIONS ABOUT
UNDISCLOSED GIFTS FROM A WEALTHY
BUSINESSMAN.
HAILING FROM A BATTLEGROUND
STATE, BOB McDONNELL WAS A
PROMINENT FIGURE IN THE 2012
ELECTION SEASON.
THE REPUBLICAN GOVERNOR APPEARED
IN VIRGINIA ALONGSIDE
PRESIDENTIAL NOMINEE MITT ROMNEY
ON SEVERAL OCCASIONS, AND WAS
TOUTED AS A POSSIBLE NATIONAL
FIGURE OF THE FUTURE.
NOW, AS McDONNELL WRAPS UP HIS
FINAL YEAR IN OFFICE, HE'S
CONFRONTED WITH MOUNTING
QUESTIONS ABOUT
GIFTS FROM BUSINESSMAN JONNIE
WILLIAMS SENIOR, CHIEF EXECUTIVE
OF STAR SCIENTIFIC INCORPORATED
-- A DIETARY SUPPLEMENT
MANUFACTURER.
THE LATEST DISCLOSURE, IN "THE
WASHINGTON POST", SAYS WILLIAMS
GAVE $145,000 IN CASH AND GIFTS
TO THE McDONNELL FAMILY AND A
CORPORATION OWNED BY THE
GOVERNOR IN 2011 AND 2012.
ACCORDING TO THE ACCOUNT, THE
PAYMENTS TO THE CORPORATION
OFFER THE FIRST PUBLIC EXAMPLE
OF MONEY PROVIDED BY WILLIAMS
THAT WOULD DIRECTLY BENEFIT THE
GOVERNOR AND NOT JUST HIS
FAMILY.
THE TRAIL OF ALLEGATIONS BEGAN
WITH A CHEF AT THE GOVERNOR'S
MANSION, WHO WAS CHARGED WITH
TAKING FOOD FOR HIS OWN BUSINESS
LAST YEAR.
SINCE THEN, HE'S BEEN TALKING TO
FEDERAL OFFICIALS ABOUT
McDONNELL'S RELATIONSHIP WITH
WILLIAMS.
THAT, IN TURN, HAS TRIGGERED
STATE AND FEDERAL
INVESTIGATIONS.
FOR MORE ON THE BREWING
CONTROVERSY WE ARE JOINED BY
JULIAN WALKER.
HE IS A STAFF WRITER FOR THE
"VIRGINIAN-PILOT" NEWSPAPER.
THANK YOU FOR BEING WITH US.
FIRST OF ALL, TELL US MORE ABOUT
JOHNNY WILLIAMS.
WHO IS HE?
WHAT'S HIS CONNECTION TO THE
GOVERNOR?
>> JOHNNY WILLIAMS IS A
BUSINESSMAN.
HE HAS... HE'S THE HEAD AND
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OF STAR
SCIENTIFIC WHICH IS A
NUTRITIONAL SUPPLEMENT MAKER.
THEY USED TO BE A TOBACCO
COMPANY BUT THEY PHASED OUT A
LOT OF THEIR TOBACCO BUSINESS.
NOW THEY'RE MAKING DIETARY
SUPPLEMENTS.
HE HAS BEEN INVOLVED AT A DONOR
IN VIRGINIA POLITICS FOR A
NUMBER OF YEARS.
HE HAS GIVEN TO REPUBLICANS OVER
THE YEARS INCLUDING THE FORMER
ATTORNEY GENERAL JERRY KILLGORE
WHO RAN FOR GOVERNOR IN 2005
UNSUCCESSFULLY.
HE'S GIVEN SIGNIFICANT FUNDS TO
GOVERNOR McDONALD AND ALSO TO
MEMBERS OF HIS FAMILY AS HAS
BEEN DISCLOSED IN A NUMBER OF
PRESS ACCOUNTS HERE IN RECENT
MONTHS.
>> Woodruff: HAS HE GIVEN THESE
KINDS OF GIFTS FOR CLOTHES FOR
THE GOVERNOR'S WIFE?
A WATCH THROUGH THE GOVERNOR'S
WIFE FOR THE GOVERNOR?
HAS HE GIVEN THOSE KINDS OF
GIFTS PREVIOUSLY TO OTHER
POLITICIANS?
>> MOST OF WHAT WE KNOW SO FAR
ARE THE GIVES THAT HE'S GIVEN TO
THE NONMONETARY GIFTS THAT HE'S
GIVEN TO GOVERNOR McDONALD AND
HIS FAMILY.
MUCH OF THE OTHER GIVING THAT
HAS OCCURRED IN THE PAST, SOME
OF IT HAS BEEN IN TRADITIONAL
CAMPAIGN CONTRIBUTIONS.
SOME OF IT HAS COME IN THE FORMS
OF OTHER KINDS OF IN-KIND
CONTRIBUTIONS.
BUT MUCH OF THE FOCUS HERE
RECENTLY IS ON THE GIFT THAT HE
HAS GIVEN TO GOVERNOR
MacDONALD AND HIS FAMILY AS
YOU MENTIONED AN EXPENSIVE WATCH
THAT WAS REPORTEDLY GIVEN TO THE
GOVERNOR'S WIFE AND THEN TURNED
OVER TO THE GOVERNOR.
MONEY TO COVER CATERING COSTS AT
THE WEDDING OF THE GOVERNOR'S
DAUGHTER IN 2011.
THESE RECENT DISCLOSURE OF LOANS
TO THE GOVERNOR TO SUPPORT SOME
REAL ESTATE, CORPORATE HOLDINGS
THAT HE HAS.
WE REPORTED ABOUT MONEY THAT
JOHNNY WILLIAMS PROVIDED TO FLY
THE GOVERNOR AND HIS FAMILY TO
THE FINAL FOUR FOR THE N.C.A.A.
BASKETBALL TOURNAMENT IN 2011
WHEN A LOCAL COLLEGE HERE IN
VIRGINIA MADE A CINDERELLA RUN
TO THE ULTIMATE BASKETBALL
TOURNEY THERE.
>> Woodruff: IS THERE AN
UNDERSTANDING OF WHY THE
GOVERNOR AND HIS FAMILY HAVE
ACCEPTED THESE GIFTS?
I MEAN, IS THERE... ARE THEY IN
FINANCIAL DIFFICULTY?
>> WELL, THE GOVERNOR HAS A
LARGE FAMILY.
HE HAS FIVE CHILDREN.
AND THE GOVERNOR HAS NEVER BEEN
A MAN OF SIGNIFICANT FINANCIAL
MEANS.
THE VIRGINIA'S SYSTEM OF
DISCLOSURES IS SUCH THAT WHILE
YOU ARE REQUIRED TO REPORT YOUR
ASSETS, YOUR HOLDINGS, YOUR
LIABILITIES, THINGS OF THAT
SORT, PUBLIC OFFICIALS, BECAUSE
OF THE WAY THAT THEY ARE
REQUIREDDED TO DISCLOSE THEIR
FINANCIAL HOLDINGS, THERE'S NOT
A GREAT DEAL KNOWN ABOUT THEIR
ASSETS.
THEY REPORT IN A RANGE OF
INVESTMENTS AND LIABILITIES AND
THINGS OF THAT SORT.
SO I THINK IT'S FAIR TO SAY THAT
THE GOVERNOR IS NOT A WEALTHY
MAN.
WHETHER THEY ARE IN SIGNIFICANT
FINANCIAL STRAITS I THINK IS
SOMEWHAT DIFFICULT TO SAY.
>> Woodruff: WHAT IS THE
GOVERNOR'S OFFICE SAYING ABOUT
ALL THIS?
>> WELL, THEY ARE INSISTING THAT
THEY'VE DONE NOTHING WRONG.
THEY HAVE BEEN CRITICAL OF SOME
OF THE NEWS REPORTS.
THEY HAVE NOT CALLED THEM
INACCURATE BUT THEY HAVE
QUESTIONED THE VALIDITY OF THEM.
THEY HAVE INSISTED THROUGHOUT
THAT THE GOVERNOR HAS AT LEAST
HELD TO THE LETTER OF THE LAW AS
FAR AS HIS DISCLOSURES ARE
CONCERNED, THAT EVERYTHING HE
HAS DONE HAS MET REQUIREMENTS
UNDER STATE LAW.
VIRGINIA LAW IS PRETTY
PERMISSIVE WHEN IT COMES TO
ACCEPTING GIFTS AND REALLY THERE
IS NOT MUCH OF A LIMIT.
ESSENTIALLY UNLIMITED GIFTS SO
LONG AS YOU PROVIDE AN ANNUAL
ACCOUNTING OF WHAT HE RECEIVE.
>> Woodruff: SO WHAT ABOUT THE
DISCUSSION OF THE ETHICS OF IT?
EVEN IF IT'S NOT ILLEGAL, IS
THERE A CONVERSATION ON THE PART
OF THE GOVERNOR OR THE
GOVERNOR'S STAFF ABOUT THAT?
>> WELL, THE GOVERNOR HAS
RETAINED A PROMINENT WASHINGTON
D.C. WHITE COLLAR ATTORNEY WHO
HAS REPRESENTED A NUMBER OF
NOTEWORTHY AND RECOGNIZABLE
NAMES IN POLITICS WHEN THEY HAVE
HAD THEIR OWN DIFFICULTIES AND
THEIR OWN PUBLIC CRISES.
SO HE IS CERTAINLY TAKING THIS
SERIOUSLY.
THERE IS BOTH A FEDERAL
INVESTIGATION AND A STATE
INVESTIGATION.
THERE'S ALSO THE PARALLEL
EMBEZZLEMENT INVESTIGATION INTO
THE FORMER CHEF AT THE
GOVERNOR'S MANSION.
ON TOP OF THAT, THERE IS ANOTHER
PROBE BEING CONDUCTED BY THE
LOCAL PROSECUTOR IN RICHMOND
INTO THE GOVERNOR'S DISCLOSURE
FORMS AND WHETHER OR NOT HE
PROPERLY COMPLETED AND REPORTED
ALL OF THE GIFTS THAT HE
RECEIVED.
SO THERE ARE A NUMBER OF LAYERS
TO THIS.
MEANWHILE, YOU HAVE FOLKS IN
BOTH PARTIES, REPUBLICANS AND
DEMOCRATS HERE IN VIRGINIA,
QUESTIONING THE GIFTS THAT THE
GOVERNOR HAS RECEIVED AND
QUESTIONING WHETHER THIS PASSES
THE SMELL TEST FROM AN ETHICAL
PERSPECTIVE BUT GWYNETH ICKES
AND LEGALITY ARE TWO DIFFERENT
THINGS.
>> YOU'RE SAYING EVEN MEMBERS OF
THE GOVERNOR'S OWN PARTY, THE
REPUBLICAN PARTY, ARE ALSO
RAISING QUESTIONS ABOUT THIS?
>> SOME REPUBLICANS, YES.
THE ONLY... ONLY TWO DEMOCRATS
SO FAR HAVE COME OUT AND
DIRECTLY CALLED FOR THE GOVERNOR
TO RESIGN.
TWO DEMOCRATS WHO ARE IN THE
VIRGINIA GENERAL ASSEMBLY.
NO REPUBLICAN HAS COME OUT AND
SAID THAT HE SHOULD RESIGN, BUT
A NUMBER OF REPUBLICANS, BOTH
PRIVATELY AND PUBLICLY, ARE AT
LEAST FUR OWING THEIR BROWS
ABOUT THIS AND ACKNOWLEDGING
SOMETIMES IN HUSHED TONES THAT
THIS IS PROBLEMATIC FOR THE
GOVERNOR AT LEAST FROM A PUBLIC
PERSPECTIVE.
>> Woodruff: AND IS THERE A
SENSE THAT MORE MAY COME OUT OR
THIS IS THE END OF IT?
>> OH, I THINK THERE'S MUCH MORE
STILL TO BE REVEALED.
I THINK ALL OF THE FOLKS WHO
COVER THE VIRGINIA CAPITAL ARE
HEARINPROBABLY ON JUST ABOUT A Y
BASIS IF NOT AN HOUR-BY-HOUR
BASIS THE LATEST RUMOR DUJOUR,
THIS GIFT THAT HAS BEEN
UNREPORTED AND THIS ONE NOT
DISCLOSED.
THERE'S A LOT OF RUMORS SWIRLING
AROUND.
CERTAINLY AS WE KNOW THERE IS AN
ACTIVE FEDERAL INVESTIGATION.
SO IT REMAINS TO BE SEEN WHAT
CARDS THE FEDERAL LAW
ENFORCEMENT OFFICIALS ARE
HOLDING.
>> JULIAN WALKER WITH THE
VIRGINIAN PILOT NEWSPAPERS.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
AND THE TWO CANDIDATES LOOKING
TO SUCCEED McDONNELL AS
VIRGINIA'S GOVERNOR WILL DEBATE
ON JULY 20.
I'LL BE THE MODERATOR, AND IF
YOU HAVE A QUESTION FOR THEM TO
ANSWER, YOU CAN LEAVE IT ON OUR
WEBSITE.
THE "NEWSHOUR" WILL LIVE STREAM
THE EVENT; FIND THE DETAILS ON
OUR HOMEPAGE.
>> Ifill: FINALLY TONIGHT, A
STORY ABOUT PRISON, POETRY, AND
PERSEVERANCE.
JEFFREY BROWN RECENTLY MET WITH
A CHINESE DISSIDENT WHO WAS
SHARING HIS TALENTS AT A
FESTIVAL IN PITTSBURGH.
>> Reporter: LIAO YIWU WAS IN
HIS EARLY 30s WHEN HE LEARNED TO
PLAY THE FLUTE, A PRISONER WHO'D
BEEN BEATEN AND TORTURED AFTER
HIS ARREST IN 1990..
IT WAS A FELLOW INMATE-- AN 84-
YEAR-OLD MONK-- WHO SHOWED HIM
THAT MUSIC COULD BE A KIND OF
SALVATION.
>> ( translated ): I WAS
TRANSFERRED TO ANOTHER PRISON
AND THERE I MET A MAN WHO WOULD
BECOME MY MENTOR.
HE TOLD ME, YOU WILL NEVER HAVE
FREEDOM IF YOU DON'T HAVE
FREEDOM IN YOUR MIND.
SO HE TAUGHT ME HOW TO PLAY THE
FLUTE.
>> Reporter: LIAO, TODAY ONE OF
CHINA'S LEADING DISSIDENT
WRITERS, RECOUNTS HIS PRISON
LIFE IN A NEW ENGLISH-LANGUAGE
MEMOIR CALLED "FOR A SONG AND A
HUNDRED SONGS."
WHEN DID YOU DECIDE THAT YOU
WANTED TO WRITE ABOUT THIS
EXPERIENCE?
>> ( translated ): IF I DIDN'T
WRITE DOWN THE STORY, THEN IT
WOULD BE AS IF IT NEVER
HAPPENED.
I NEEDED TO WRITE IT DOWN SO
THAT I WOULDN'T BE FORGOTTEN
LIKE A STRAY DOG.
>> Reporter: GROWING UP IN
SICHUAN PROVINCE DURING THE
CULTURAL REVOLUTION, LIAO
RECEIVED LITTLE FORMAL
EDUCATION.
HE LEARNED TRADITIONAL CHINESE
POETRY FROM HIS FATHER AND FOUND
HIS OWN WAY TO THE AMERICAN BEAT
POET ALAN GINSBURG, WHOSE WORK
WAS PASSED AROUND SECRETLY.
>> ( translated ): I JUST
ADMIRED HIM AND HIS GENERATION.
I WANTED TO IMITATE THE WRITING
OF THIS SO-CALLED LOST
GENERATION.
BUT I WASN'T INTERESTED IN
POLITICS AT ALL.
>> Reporter: THAT CHANGED ON
JUNE 4, 1989, WHEN THE CHINESE
GOVERNMENT ORDERED SOLDIERS INTO
TIANAMEN SQUARE TO PUT AN END TO
PRO-DEMOCRACY PROTESTS.
HUNDREDS OF STUDENTS WERE KILLED
IN THE GUNFIRE.
>> ( translated ): THE TIANAMEN
MASSACRE CHANGED MY LIFE AND MY
THINKING.
I HEARD ABOUT IT THROUGH THE
RADIO AND I WAS DESPAIRED.
I WAS AFRAID.
I FELT HELPLESS, SO I JUST
SHOUTED OUT THESE LINES.
"LEAP! HOWL! FLY! RUN!
FREEDOM FEELS SO GOOD
SNUFFING OUT FREEDOM FEELS SO
GOOD!
POWER WILL BE TRIUMPHANT
FOREVER.
WILL BE PASSED DOWN FROM
GENERATION TO GENERATION
>> Reporter: LIAO'S RESPONSE, A
POEM, TITLED "MASSACRE", WAS A
LONG ANGRY HOWL AGAINST THE
GOVERNMENT.
>> ( translated ): "FREEDOM WILL
ALSO COME BACK FROM THE DEAD.
IT WILL COME BACK TO LIFE IN
GENERATION AFTER GENERATION."
>> Reporter: LIAO RECENTLY
PERFORMED "MASSACRE" AS THE
FEATURED GUEST AT A FORUM HOSTED
BY THE CITY OF ASYLUM,
PITTSBURGH, AN ORGANIZATION THAT
SUPPORTS POLITICALLY PERSECUTED
WRITERS.
IN THE YEAR AFTER TIANAMEN, THE
POEM BECAME POPULAR AMONG
CHINESE ACTIVISTS, AND LIAO WAS
ARRESTED AND SENTENCED TO FOUR
YEARS IN PRISON.
IT WAS THERE HE BEGAN LISTENING
TO AND THEN TELLING THE STORIES
OF PEOPLE AT THE BOTTOM RUNGS OF
THE SOCIAL LADDER: PETTY THIEVES
AND OTHERS HE MET IN JAIL.
AND LATER, SWEEPERS, SCAVENGERS,
PUBLIC RESTROOM ATTENDANTS, AND
MANY OTHERS IN A CHINA WE RARELY
HEAR ABOUT.
HE PUBLISHED SOME OF THOSE
CONVERSATIONS IN A BOOK CALLED
"THE CORPSE WALKER."
>> ( translated ): I WAS WITH
PEOPLE WHO LIVE IN THE BOTTOM OF
THE SOCIETY.
AND WHEN I CAME OUT OF PRISON, I
WAS ALSO LIVING AT THE BOTTOM OF
SOCIETY.
I KNOW THESE PEOPLE, THE PEOPLE
OF REALLY LOW SOCIAL STATUS.
AND IN THESE PEOPLE, I SEE MY
OWN SHADOW.
I IDENTIFY MYSELF WITH THEM.
WE ARE A DESERTED GROUP OF
PEOPLE, BUT WE ARE THE MAJORITY.
THE SO-CALLED ELITE DON'T CARE
FOR US, BUT WE ARE THE
MAINSTREAM OF SOCIETY.
>> Reporter: EVEN AFTER LIAO WAS
RELEASED FROM PRISON, CHINESE
OFFICIALS CONTINUED TO WATCH,
HARASS AND DENY HIM VISAS TO
TRAVEL AND SPEAK ABROAD.
TIENCHI MARTIN-LIAO, A CLOSE
FRIEND, IS THE EDITOR OF THE
INDEPENDENT "CHINESE PEN
CENTER," WHICH HELPS PUBLISH
WRITERS IN AND OUT OF THE
COUNTRY.
SHE SAYS THE CHINESE GOVERNMENT
FEELS THREATENED BY LIAO'S
PORTRAYAL OF LIFE IN CHINA.
>> IF IT'S JUST A NOVEL OR
FICTIVE, IT'S OKAY.
BUT HE WRITES IN A REPORTAGE
STYLE.
AND IF PEOPLE READ IT, THEY KNOW
IT'S THE TRUTH.
IT'S NOT IMAGINATION.
SO IT'S JUST THE FIRST TIME THAT
SOMEONE HAS DESCRIBED THE REAL
SITUATION INSIDE THE SICHUAN
PRISON.
NO OTHER WRITER HAS EVER
DESCRIBED THE SITUATION SO CLOSE
TO THE REALITY.
AND THE LOCAL AUTHORITY DOESN'T
LIKE THAT.
>> Reporter: LIAO EVENTUALLY
FLED CHINA, SNEAKING OUT THROUGH
VIETNAM AND SETTLING IN GERMANY,
WHERE HE LIVES TODAY.
BUT HE CONTINUES TO WRITE AND
TELL HIS COUNTRY'S STORY.
>> ( translated ): THE YOUNG
PEOPLE DON'T EVEN KNOW WHAT
THEY FIRST FIND OUT WHEN THEY GO
ABROAD TO WESTERN COUNTRIES.
BUT SOMETIMES THEN THEY DON'T
EVEN BELIEVE IT.
THE COMMUNIST PARTY HAS TRIED TO
ELIMINATE PARTS OF HISTORY.
THAT IS BAD FOR THE YOUNGER
GENERATION.
IF THEY DON'T HAVE THIS
HISTORICAL CONSCIOUSNESS, THEY
WILL JUST FOCUS ON GETTING
MATERIAL GOODS.
WE HAVE TO WORK ON THAT SO
EVERYBODY KNOWS WHAT HAPPENED.
>> PEOPLE FIND WAYS TO EXPRESS
THEMSELVES AND IT CAN BE READ.
THERE IS NO WAY TO BLOCK
EVERYTHING.
THE GOVERNMENT, THEY TRY TO
CONTROL THE WHOLE SITUATION.
BUT I THINK IT IS A FIGHT THAT
THEY ARE GOING TO LOSE.
>> Reporter: FOR HIS PART, LIAO
TOLD US HIS OWN EXPERIENCE MAKES
HIM MORE PESSIMISTIC ABOUT THE
POTENTIAL FOR CHANGE AND HE
DOUBTS HE'LL EVER RETURN TO HIS
HOMELAND.
>> Ifill: ONLINE, READ ONE OF
LIAO'S MOST FAMOUS POEMS,
"MASSACRE", TRANSLATED INTO
ENGLISH.
>> Woodruff: AGAIN, THE MAJOR
DEVELOPMENTS OF THE DAY:
THE MAN CHARGED IN THE BOSTON
MARATHON BOMBINGS APPEARED IN
COURT FOR THE FIRST TIME, AND
PLEADED NOT GUILTY IN THE
ATTACKS THAT KILLED THREE.
THE DEFENSE RESTED FOR GEORGE
ZIMMERMAN.
THE NEIGHBORHOOD WATCH VOLUNTEER
IS ACCUSED OF KILLING AN UNARMED
TEENAGER, TRAYVON MARTIN, IN
SANFORD, FLORIDA.
THE DEATH TOLL IN SATURDAY'S
FIERY TRAIN WRECK IN QUEBEC ROSE
TO 20, AND POLICE SAID 30 OTHERS
ARE MISSING AND PRESUMED DEAD.
AND HOUSE REPUBLICANS MET ON
IMMIGRATION REFORM.
BUT PARTY LEADERS EMERGED TO
REAFFIRM THEY WILL NOT TAKE UP A
SENATE BILL THAT OFFERS A PATH
TO CITIZENSHIP.
>> Ifill: ONLINE, WE EXAMINE
SOME SURPRISING STATISTICS FROM
A NEW REPORT ON CORRUPTION AND
BRIBERY.
HARI SREENIVASAN HAS THE
DETAILS.
>> Sreenivasan: MORE THAN ONE IN
FOUR PEOPLE HAVE PAID A BRIBE IN
THE LAST YEAR.
THAT'S ACCORDING TO TRANSPARENCY
INTERNATIONAL'S 2013 CORRUPTION
BAROMETER.
YOU CAN FIND OUT MORE OF THE
FINDINGS ON OUR HOMEPAGE, WHILE
YOU'RE THERE, TAKE OUR ANONYMOUS
POLL.
AND OUR SCIENCE WEDNESDAY POST:
EIGHT THINGS YOU DIDN'T KNOW
ABOUT INVENTOR NIKOLA TESLA, WHO
WOULD BE 157 TODAY.
ALL THAT AND MORE IS ON OUR
WEBSITE newshour.pbs.org.
GWEN?
>> Ifill: AND THAT'S THE
"NEWSHOUR" FOR TONIGHT.
ON THURSDAY, WE'LL UPDATE THE
TRIAL OF GEORGE ZIMMERMAN,
ACCUSED IN THE SHOOTING DEATH OF
FLORIDA TEENAGER TRAYVON MARTIN.
I'M GWEN IFILL.
>> Woodruff: AND I'M JUDY
WOODRUFF.
WE'LL SEE YOU ONLINE AND AGAIN
HERE TOMORROW EVENING.
THANK YOU AND GOOD NIGHT.